lines exactly with what we are calling um
our church to do is to go live inspired and
it's really cool when it lines up like that
so no every week i'm not able to like twist
the words right i'm not into twisting words i'm
really just taking the text and uh really just
declaring truth that god has reminded us of our
church but anyways um so we'll be walking through
that so today we're gonna be in ephesians chapter
five um and we're gonna start with verse eight so
we've been walking through a lot of things and
again if uh if you don't have a bible i'm just
gonna i say this every week and i'll remind you
every week if you don't have a bible there's two
two ways to get one number one back here on our
table in our next steps table there's a bible
it's yours for free um take one it's yours
number two um the greatest way to take time
with you everywhere you go and not forget it
because we know we don't forget our phones is
to download it and so i use the holy bible app um
why do i encourage that is because i use it and i
see a lot of people use it so get on there follow
some plans and walk you through how to study the
bible it's one of my favorite apps i'll tell you
this i started reading the bible ten times more
when i downloaded the bible that's why
it's there so here's just an encouragement
um it'd be worth it so um we have been walking
through a couple of things but i wanted to start
this way i'm just going to highlight a little
bit about what we're going to talk about is
has anybody noticed how important white is i
mean that may sound like a stupid statement how
important life is so when we walk in here on
sunday mornings there's two emergency lights on
which i'll run right now because we'll pull them
up but anyways there's two emergency lights on
but if they're not on we're walking straight
into darkness and so we aren't able to see so
life is obviously important in your life that
makes logical sense but it's very important but
anybody in here ever lost power at night before
you went to bed we're not talking about the whole
you know home alone one out of nine that my
alarm didn't get reset and now i woke up late
but what i promise when it's at night
like when you're usually watching tv
and it's 100 degrees outside because it's summer
and there's no air conditioning right you got
anybody ever lost power during those times i i
know i did as a kid uh more times than i would
like to think as we live down the country and
when you lost power they pretty much forgot about
you until monday but what i found with that was
we were always searching for like the moment the
lights went out we were searching for light so my
mom wouldn't grab the candle because we didn't
have phones that could light up anything right
but for us when clients go out we grab our phones
we grab a flashlight and grab a candle because the
light is important to us and it's so important
to us and it's so ingrained in our minds that
everybody knows this is the first thing you
do when you wake up and you go into a room
you flip on a mine so again have you ever been in
that room where it's dark and all the lights are
out because the electric's out and you go into a
room even though you know the electrics out and
you flip the switch right it's so driven into
us that it's important for light so i'm saying
that to say as you walk through this text today
i want you to understand the importance of light
and how light basically dissipates darkness
because darkness is not what we like being
and we like being in light and that's what god's
called us to be so um we're going to be talking
again just the importance of walking in light how
we should look inspired today by shining the light
of christ of those around us but just to kind of
catch you up on where we have been and i'm going
to take a brief moment to do that and then then i
think it will be great for you to be able to hear
from somebody what that means and so we've been
walking through the book of ephesians for the last
several months i don't know how long uh probably
since about january um but we have been walking
through these chapters now we're in chapter five
and so for those of you who weren't here in this
first couple of chapters it's so important for you
to know these chapters and so ephesians 1 2 and
3 talk about what christ or what god has done for
you right what christ or what god has done for you
in order for you to experience a relationship with
him in order for you to experience salvation in
order to spend eternity with him and to live with
hope and so he he talked about all these things
that he has done for you and then he changes in
chapters four five and six and he says now walk
live because of what i've done for you and
so i thought one of the greatest ways for
us to even kind of get an idea of what
that looks like what god has done for us
and why we walk in light or while we walk as
god is called to walk is to hear a testimony
of somebody who talks about what god has done
for them and how they are living because of
that hope and if you're wondering have i chose
somebody and i'm going to point you out in the
room no i'm not going to put each other
and trust me it's my wife she already
is very prepared and planned so she's going to
take a couple minutes to kind of share her story
about what guy's done for um what god's laid in
her heart and then also the reason why she walks
i don't know how prepared he's saying but
honestly i forgot that he asked me to do
this until this morning and i was like oh but
as i my initial reaction being human to be like
what am i gonna say um worship was amazing by
the way um it always is whenever we can worship
our father um but just i felt like that
um as i prepared a little bit before
getting into his word and then um just listening
to the music and just worshiping with you guys
the lord just really just very evidently
reminded me that what hasn't he done for me
god is so faithful he's just so faithful so first
of all he saved me he sent jesus and that's like
the most important thing right um to die for my
sons and um so for that i'll forever be grateful
um and then also just his presence my life like
um just you know walking through i could tell you
time and time again you know the little things
where he's been present and he's been there and
he's always there that i've been aware of his
presence is what i should say um but that will
take me a very long time so i'm not going to
do that but i will tell you a couple things one
was um whenever ben came to know christ i was the
believer before him we got married when he wasn't
and i wasn't living like a believer and so god and
his grace and his mercy pulled me back and saved
him and then called us to ministry and little did
i know what that was going to look like for our
lives to start in a little town in oklahoma
bringing us to cincinnati and to start this
church and for us to meet you guys because if that
wouldn't have happened then we wouldn't be where
we're at and so it's just amazing um where god has
brought us but it hasn't always been cupcakes and
rainbows i mean we obviously had to move away from
a lot of people that we know and they love but we
get to love more so it's been great um another
situation was when um our youngest daughter
she was fighting for her life when she was a
month old and we actually almost lost her and god
in his mercy and his he just so graciously
decided to kill her the side of um heaven and um
that was that was a lot but he was faithful
in that as well um he would have been faithful
even if he wouldn't have so let me say that but
that was so good um and like i said just just a
lot of things where he's just kind of put things
into place of selling our home before we got here
um just little things but anyways so like i said
if i went into a lot of it it would take me all
day and i don't want to do that because
you guys want to hear my lovely husband
um so in first i've been studying for the book of
first peter and so in first peter in first peter
he reminds us in verse or chapter one verse two
it says god the father knew you and chose you long
ago and his spirit has made you holy and so just
being reminded that like he knew me before and he
knows me and he chose me and he chose every one of
you and he knows every one of you and so because
of that and what he's done by sending jesus i
i it's not even a question in my mind like why
would i not live for christ because of what he's
done do i always get it right absolutely not but
i strive because i want to do what he wants me
to do not because i have to but because i get to
and then in verse or in chapter 2 verse 24 it says
he personally carried our sins in his body on the
cross so that we can be dead to sin and live for
what is right so um it's not even a question of
well you can if you want to like it's a command
live for what is right but it's not a because we
have to when you can change that in your thinking
too i get to because of what christ has done
for me it just it's it's freeing being able to
surrender your life in your heart um yeah okay
so i think it's important um if you guys
are anything like me there's times i read
the scripture and i'm like okay well that's true
in their day that doesn't happen anymore but i
want to see that evidence today and for for you
and again this short small picture if you want
to know more details have a longer conversation
with brittany because you'll see story after story
after story and god's presence what god has done
for our family obviously salvation is number one
but there's so much more that god has done and
because of what god has done we strive to live
inspired we strive to live for him not because we
have to but we get to i think that's the hard part
with religions um a lot of times it's misuntrue
that this idea that we do something because we
have to that's what we're supposed to that's
the expectation it's the wrong heart you've
missed it you've missed the love and the grace
of god god has a purpose for you to live with
freedom for something greater than yourself and
so i'm hoping today you're going to see this and
so um we walk through again therefore based on all
that god has done for us here's some things that
we walk through in this chapter in chapter five
he says to imitate god is dearly loved children
he says because of what i've done for you walk in
love because christ gave himself for you then he
says this when we talked about this two weeks ago
walk and talk in purity because it's not valuable
for you right because what god has done for you
walk and then he talks about this important thing
he says the reason why we don't uh walk in
impurity and live in impurity is because it's
not pondering to god but he says it's not named
among those who are followers of god it's not
valuable for him and and we're going to talk
more about that that's darkness but then in
verse seven i mean this is the verse right we're
going to jump into he says don't become partners
with those who walk in darkness those who are
walking in in purity because again these are
things that are not associated with god so we've
been changed therefore if we've been changed by
god why would we walk in things that are not of
god and it's not because we don't you know have
our it's not because you know god's like i want to
make sure that you don't get to do fun things it's
not about what it is it's really about i've got
so many things that are better than that darkness
for you to walk in and so we're going
to read today's text again in light of
everything that god has done for us and if god
hasn't done something for you maybe you don't
know that here's my encouragement is
sometimes you have to lean on somebody else's
life change and say man because of what god
said in your life i'm going to come to jesus
and realize what god's done in my life or
what god's going to do in my life i know
that's difficult it's difficult when you hear them
you're like well god's never done anything for me
and if that's you today i want to talk with you
i want you to know god has done something for you
and it was sending his son jesus down across the
trigger god has done something for you because
today you're in a service field to hear his
love and grace and mercy that he gives to you
god has done so much for you so let's read these
these verses here again in ephesians chapter 5
uh verses 8 through 14 and it says this in verse
8 for you were once darkness but now you are light
in the lord live as children of light for
the fruit of light consists of all goodness
righteousness and truth testing what is pleasing
to the lord don't participate in the fruitless
works of darkness but instead expose them for it
is shame it is shameful even to mention what is
done by them in secret everything exposed by light
is made visible for what makes everything visible
it's light therefore it is said get up sleeper
and rise up from the dead and christ will shine
on you let's pray lord jesus thank you again for
this opportunity to walk through your word lord
and and be changed so lord i just pray for all of
us to open our hearts and our minds to your word
and lord be changed to live us though it's true
in our life and so we just pray this nearly amen
so we see in verses 8 through 10 um this is where
i'll say where paul is challenging us to live
inspired and so you'll say where's that text at
um so i'll just kind of mention here he says go
live as children of light go delivers children
of light and so to live inspired is to to live
his life to the world but the first things i want
to talk about we're going to kind of walk through
these verses that's one of the things i love to
be able to do is not just cover an idea but to
walk through the verses and see exactly what is in
every one of them so the first thing that he says
here in verse 8 is for you are once darkness again
paul's speaking directly to believers those who
follow jesus so you were once living in darkness
and meaning we are to not walk in darkness still
um but we were one that began to think about
verse seven we were ones that were partners with
those who were imperial but we're not mean right
that's that's the statement but paul's speaking
to believers because he's wanting to remind them
hey don't continue to walk this way but so the
question i ask myself is okay so if what i used
to do was walking in darkness what is darkness
what was darkness and that's the part where let's
look back one one and maybe one page for you but
it's ephesians chapter two if you don't wanna
turn there ephesians chapter two verses one
through three talk about what is darkness it
says you were dead in your trespasses and sins
in which you previously lived according to the
ways of this world according to the ruler of the
power of the heir and the spirit now working in
the disobedient we too all were previously lived
among them in our flesh fleshly desires carrying
out the inclinations of our flesh and thoughts
and we were by nature as children under wrath
as with others also so what does that mean
without christ we were in darkness
we were living for ourselves we were
we were not we had no clue who god was that's
really the idea we were living without purpose
and so that's where we were as as a non-liver and
so this is the part i want to be as clear as i
can i don't assume everybody in this room knows
jesus and it's like okay i've given my life to
jesus and so maybe you're saying this so you're
saying i'm walking in darkness right now well i
actually i'm not god's word is but but here's
the key thing when you hear somebody talking
about that maybe you're walking in darkness right
now that's not to be like oh gosh you're less i
said oh man that you're a horrible person you
know what it really is saying you don't have to
it's not god's best for you it's not good for
you to walk in darkness because we just we talked
about that at the beginning right we all like
light we like flipping the light because it brings
about where we're not scared anymore we get to
see things clearly right so what god's saying is
don't walk in darkness he said that was your
former ways right and i think about this and
in our lives when we were walking in darkness and
i think back to my family we used to live out in
the woods and my grandma lived down the road from
this and i used to walk to my grandmas every day
down this one path and everybody knows this if you
consistently and especially one time aggressive
you want the same path what do you make a path or
a rug right you end up making these pathways like
this line in the grass i'm like my grandma
was like you need to stop walking that same
path because you're causing her grasp to look
back so i started walking down the gravel road
okay here's what god's saying you're walking down
the wrong path you're creating a rut in your life
that is destroying you there's a better path one
that won't be destroyed one that is clear one that
is a guide to guiding you one that is light not
darkness that's exactly what paul is saying here
don't walk in darkness like he used to so then
he moves on in the second part of this verse
and he says okay so you were once darkness but
now you are light in the lord so here's the other
thing okay ben you've already made this statement
i need to go live inspired by how do i do it
well here's the good news it's not you it's in
the lord it's what the lord gives you to be able
to walk in line it's not on your own power or your
own abilities because if you're anything like me
you wake up in the morning you look in the mirror
and you say you don't have any potential you're
not good you're not really that great at anything
how can god use you and this is what god's saying
that's exactly why i can't use you because you
are nothing let me understand this you are nothing
meaning compared to his power and his ability to
work in you you are nothing we can bring nothing
to the table but our obedience our surrender and
our faith we bring that to him and he says i can
use it but if we bring our pride and our gifts and
everything that we're good at god you can use this
and god's saying no i don't want that i want you
i want you fully surrendered i want you because
i'm gonna put lightning to be able to be like
to the world so again he says how how do we um
when we think about this we're walking in the
lord but then i ask this question so how do we
become light how did we become one in the
lord so here's great i love how paul does
this let's go back to ephesians 2 and see how we
became one so in ephesians 2 starting in verse 4
it describes how he became what in the lord and
he says this but god and this is the greatest
two words in the bible when you hear above god it
means god has chosen to change your circumstances
and we are thankful that he did but god who is
rich in mercy which mercy is not giving what
you deserve right who's rich in mercy because
of his great love that he had for us he made
us alive he said we're not dead anymore we're
alive in christ even though we were dead in our
trespasses he says you were saved by grace which
means he gave you something you didn't deserve
he said you were saved by grace he also
raised you up with him speaking of christ
and seated him in the heavens in christ jesus
so that in the coming ages he might display the
invisible riches of his grace through his kindness
to us in christ jesus for you were saved by grace
through faith and this is not of yourself it is of
god's gift not from works so that no one can boast
for we are his workmanship created in christ jesus
for good works which god prepared ahead of time
for us to do and i know that's a lot of scripture
i challenge you you're wanting to know what was
life like when you were dark when you were in
darkness go to ephesians 2 read the first three
verses if you're wondering what it is like and
how you were able to receive white go to ephesians
2 and 3 3 10 and begin to process that and talk
through that and realize what god has done for you
and so we're raised to life in
christ we're no longer dead right
and i i heard this statement the other day and it
challenged me and and and i had to listen to it
again and i had to listen to it again and then i
had to write it down and i had to think on it the
two greatest things the two most important dates
and days in your life are the day you were born
and the day you learned why you're born i'm
gonna say that again the two most important
days in your life was the day you're born and the
day you learn why you're born why do i say that
the moment that you learn that you were born
for a greater purpose than to just live and die
is a day that will change your life it'll change
your life it changed mine 11 years ago it changed
my life when i realized it wasn't about me what
i mean by that it wasn't about me it wasn't about
all the money i could make and how good of a job
i could get and how many cars i could own how
many things i could have and all these things that
was about me i realized it was a greater purpose
because those things are not guaranteed here's the
reason why people are dying every day unexpectedly
why because nobody knows when they're gonna
die nobody knows when this life is gonna pass
so if i'm living for this world it's fleeting
but if we're living for the next world which
means where we're going to be with christ in
heaven where we will be spending an eternity
then i can live now in that light and i can
live with the purpose not only to experience
that relationship with god and what what is god
leading me here for this is the challenge to you
if you have given your life to christ and you're
still here today which here's the thing i see you
so you can't hide you're still here god's not
done with you god is not done with you again
so the question i want you to ask yourself today
is why why and it's not to wake up tomorrow and
go to work and what i mean by that it's not
just to go through the motions and get through
life there's someone waiting on you on the other
side of obedience there's someone waiting on you
to live inspire that makes sense so paul is saying
you're not living in darkness you're living and
like you're children of light when we think about
this and i think this is the part i want to take
a couple of minutes to talk about is we've been
talking about all these things we're not to walk
into impurity and sometimes we even talk a little
about this in our group is we struggle with sin
right so so can god still use me can god forgive
him absolutely and here's the important part grace
is freely giving grace it's again giving us
what we don't deserve forgiveness of our sins
so if you're walking in darkness or you have some
things that are dark in your life you can ask god
to forgive you and you can walk in mind you'll be
forgiven this is the idea of this thing the other
day grace is not a license to sin which means
we don't continue to sin because oh we got grace
no grace as a license to win what does that mean
to be used for god's glory because he has such a
plan for me so then he jumps down here this is the
cool part paul begins to explain even more what it
looks like to live inspired he goes down and he
says in verse 9 he says for the fruit of light
or the the response to god living inside of
you the life that's inside of you is this
he says consists of all goodness righteousness
and truth testing what is pleasing to the lord
so these two verses talk about what it looks like
to live inspired so what is fruit against what we
produce or what we what comes out of our lives
because we have been given the light of christ
inside of us and he says goodness righteousness
and truth so let's talk through this one if if
my kids would know this the fruits of the spirit
does anybody know that goodness is part of the
fruits of the spirit that's something that god
gives you i think that's in galatians but those
are some of the things that god gives us that
are fruit of light but he talks about goodness
and really what goodness is it's love and action
it's love and action so think about this he says
walk in love and this is in verse 2 of chapter 5
of ephesians paul is calling us to walk in love
all paul is doing is affirming the fruit of that
is walk in love goodness here's another fruit he
says righteousness that's a big word i know that
i struggle with some of the big words in the bible
as anybody else i go i'm telling you probably
every couple of words i need to go look that up
and that's okay that's good right and he
says righteousness so what is righteousness
integrity virtue purity of life and that sounds
familiar we just got to talk about purity right
um and i'll make it look more simple rightness
correct thinking feeling and acting and so again
you're thinking that's legalistic that's like me
trying to be all right it's this idea really that
is this right living before god and right living
before others righteousness is right living before
god and right living before others and then
he uses this word truth and if you think about
the first two that he gave is really a response
of truth truth is found in god's word so god's
word is truth and so he says the fruit of light
basically is goodness righteousness and truth
and so then here's the other side that
i think about is if we do follow jesus
yes yes so how do we produce something we don't
know we don't experience right and this is the
part where we cannot produce the fruit of life
if we don't know jesus i i've done it before
guys let me give you a great example before i
gave my life to christ i spent a year in church
a year and you know what i did
every time i came i'm not ready
because i haven't cleaned my life so
i'll go home and i would try to do better
and it didn't work and i come
back the next week and i go
he's offering me raise but i've got to do
something i've got to work for it and it doesn't
work so when we're sitting here saying okay i
want to live inspire i want to live for jesus
but i don't follow him daily
and then follow his word
then you're getting basically the card before
the horse right you need to give our lives to
jesus we need to follow him daily we'll know
how to live the way he's called us to live
and so he says this in verse 10
this is this is a great part he says
testing what is pleasing to the lord testing
what is pleasing to the lord right these are
the fruit he says testing that what is the most
let me ask this i haven't got you guys engaged
quick enough what does it mean when somebody gives
you a test like what's what are they looking for
see what you know assess where you're at
right so that makes sense and if anybody's
like me when i used to take tests in
college in high school i hated them
and here's the major reason why i
was cramming the morning of tests so
don't do that it's not good but the purpose
of test is really truly seeing if we're living
inspired and so how do we test ourselves here's
a great example how he just gave you three ways
to live inspire goodness righteousness truth you
test everything you do in light of those things
do they align so let me
give you some practice here
an example is is how i treat my wife or my husband
or my kids or my co-workers honoring to god
it is what i watch look at and talk about
is it right living before god and others
is my job my relationships my activities showing
love the love of christ others right so we are
able to filter through test everything we do as
if we're walking in line or not right and if it
doesn't honor god or if it isn't righteousness
right living before god or if it isn't honoring to
god and how i walk our liver if
i'm not showing the love of christ
that test proves i'm not prepared i'm not ready
i'm not right living i'm not living inspired
what's the response repentance and seeking god for
help to the walking inspire here's the other thing
god never called us to walk alone so whenever
i say living inspired this isn't an individual
thing this is a group thing we are the body of
christ and we inspire those around us by how we
work together to do that that's the
cool part with that right so why do we
test ourselves why do we walk in line and here's
the reason why matthew 5 16 says this let your
lies shine before others so that they may
see your good works and give glory to god
glory to your father in heaven
you ever heard somebody say it's my life my
choices i'm the only person affecting this myself
it's a total lie it's total life see as a believer
there's times where we come to faith in christ
and we think so individually that we forget the
word witness to other people yes the price tag
for you your personal daily relationship is
so important but that is designed for you to
influence everybody else right light shines
in darkness light shines to those around you
so because our purpose is to live a life that
shows christ others around us right this is
why we here at inspiring hope want to teach
model live and challenge you to live inspired
are we perfect absolutely not but we're
going to continue to follow jesus we're
going to continue to challenge each other to be
a light to those around us we need to be alive
to shine and shining light to those around us
who are still walking in darkness and we're
going to jump into that i'm going to try to move
a little bit quicker because i know all kinds but
the next couple verses are important and if you
read them wrong you're going to be really maybe
convicted or challenging this but i want you
to see some really good truths in this he says
this he says okay this is what please the lord
live it live as children of light and here's the
fruit of it and test it and everything but then
he says don't participate in the fruitless works
of darkness but instead expose them for it is
even shameful to mention what is done in secret
so we're not supposed to participate
in fruitless works right we know what
light does light expels darkness the moment you
turn on the light in this room darkness is gone
so yes light exposes what's wrong so as we
live in this fire it's going to expose the
darkness to truth of really god's word
and his will but paul says they're not
this darkness is fruitless right and we
understand fruitless meaning it's not beneficial
it's not beneficial for you to walk in darkness
it's not valuable it drives you away from what
god's plan is for you but paul is speaking to
believers so here's what i look at this text
he's not speaking to unbelievers who are
walking in darkness he's speaking to the church
so paul's speaking to you he's saying
participate in darkness don't walk in darkness
so why does it matter if maybe there's some areas
of your life that you're walking in darkness it's
only you to turn that team right mom dad i want
to ask this question your kids are watching
we've talked about this a couple weeks ago right
we are imitating jesus and as we imitate jesus
we're really imitating our father in heaven god
and our kids imitate us and so our kids get our
greatest influences from us so mom and dad that
darkness that you're wanting to continue to hide
does your child see it are they
walking in it that's a challenge to me
but i think of this my mom and dad and
you guys may have had the same experiences
as a kid your mom and dad were smoking the car
and crack the window and say smoke's gone out the
window it's not getting back there even though
you were complaining you were choking on smoke
it's not affecting you it's only affecting me
that's what my parents used to say now i'm the
one smoking it's not about you i'm like no you're
influenced me by a second-hand smoke why is paul
saying don't participate in darkness as believers
because somebody is being influenced by your walk
somebody's been influenced by your walk and you
may say but it's but it's only mine you know grace
you know grace abounds and it's only between
me and the lord you know don't judge me and
that's not what we're trying to do here that's not
what wall street paul's saying it's not valuable
for you and it's not valuable for your purpose
your call as a christ father to live and that's
a challenging statement for you guys i want to
tell you this if i'm the only person accountable
there's a likely chance that i won't wake up so
you used to i'm pretty good at working out every
morning now with my alarm but even brittany knows
that person is way more sometimes than i should
but when there's somebody waiting
for me at the gym i get up every time
see this is the part when we understand this is
paul saying accountability don't walk in darkness
not just for yourself but for others that are
watching you or others that are watching you and
then he even goes on a little bit more he says
expose right so i mean that's a little bit of a
challenging statement what does it mean to expose
don't participate but expose so it doesn't mean
this don't go on social media and blast all over
social media that's joe bob and tag him has been
out at the bar it's too late right don't go do
that that's not what god's saying about exposing
i don't even know who joe bob is and i don't
know if he's been at the bar once i'm sorry
um i use joe bob a lot that's
just kind of a guy sorry joe
i gotta come up with a different name sorry not
this okay see i keep getting lost i'm so sorry
so here's really where he talks about exposing it
starts with you guys i'm telling you the church
is known for their gossip and wanting to under
the you know what we're supposed to expose in
talking about joe rog or now 10 somebody
whatever his name's going to be now in the
future we do it as though we're exposing we
need to tell everybody on facebook we need to
go tell everybody in our circles and expose him
that's not what he's talking about expose you
it starts here stop trying to expose somebody
else's sins until you've exposed yours
completely to the lord this is what paul's
saying don't walk in darkness expose them
don't associate participate with them and as
you do you will be so humbled that when you see
somebody else walking in darkness you'll feel
so broken for them not judgmental broken that
they're walking in it and you want them to be free
from it so you know what you do you come alongside
them and you say hey i'm seeing something in
life that's not valuable let me tell you this
i've struggled with some areas like that
before maybe it's not the exact same
and here's how overcoming because i found there
wasn't value for me and i've got freedom and
now i'm living with a purpose and i'm seeing life
change see we expose first ourselves then we have
the right heart to come alongside biblically
other people who are struggling the darkness
is the way god's called us to do it
so james 5 19 through 21 says this
my brothers and sisters if anyone among you
strays from the truth someone who turns him back
and someone turns him back let that person
know that whoever turns the center from error
of his way will save his soul from death and get
to cover once to their sins so it is our role as
believers to help people expose our sin right in
a way that is honoring coming alongside them right
helping them restore them back to the faith so
many times if you miss that we miss that and then
he talks about it's even shameful to mention so
why is the question why is it shameful to mention
this guy talking about all these impurities
right the more you talk about something
the more you think about something the more you
desire something and you'll catch yourself sin so
when he says don't even talk about or name these
things among you it's not valuable for you or the
hearer because sometimes that will lead you to
sin and so this is the part where i've challenged
you um if you haven't heard this challenge before
i hope you hear it today is we don't just say
no to things we say yes to jesus so when we're
walking with someone who's dealing with darkness
we don't sit there okay this is another great
example somebody's dealing with pornography issues
right you're not going to sit there and keep
talking about those issues consistently right and
all the ways that they know because why they're
should keep thinking about right what you're
going to do is spend more time talking about
how to renew your mind on god's truth and word
and the purity that he gives us through a right
relationship with him in a right relationship
with those types of relationships right focus
on those things not on the impurity it's not
valuable for them it's not valuable for you and
so here's the the challenge to you is you may
be thinking of this and this is the first thing
i've thought about well jesus sat with sinners
here's the interesting part jesus sat with sinners
and he was centered but he didn't send me centers
that's right he was the greatest example yes you
know what honestly if you said have any dinner
with me there's some people are gonna hang out
and do this next steps lunch you're going to be
sitting in the center hopefully i'm not walking
in darkness i pray i'm not walking darkness right
but we sit with other people
that are struggling in our walks
but we don't have to participate with what they're
struggling with and then that's soaking that's so
key for us to know and it's not because you
don't get to or you may it's it's it's not
beneficial for you it's not beneficial for them
so let's look at this last couple verses and i'm
serious challenged by this thought
is when light exposes darkness
there's sometimes a reason why
people don't walk in the church doors
because when we're talking huge thing if you're
sitting in the seats today and you're hearing
god's word and you're you're struggling to
sit here because you just want to run i get it
because light is being preached and talked
about today and it may be poking hole in the
darkness and you don't like it i've been there and
honestly i think i spend monday through sunday in
daily work sometimes you look at the word and he's
that light is cleaning the darkness in my life
so sometimes there's people that don't show
up to church because of that there's sometimes
where people basically won't even talk about
religious things with you because any time you
shine the light of christ darwin says god so this
is just a reminder it's not easy when light hits
darkness because sometimes we want to run and
sometimes other people want to learn from you
but love people where they're at and don't be
afraid to do share that light with them but he
says this in verses 13 and 14 he says everything
exposed to the light is made invisible for what
makes everything visible is what and that's such
a logical text if you don't understand that text
i love i love that right i seriously wrote that
text out and i'm like so how do i explain this
it did it explained itself right
everything exposed to life is made visible
that makes everything invisible's life that
i love text like that right so it makes sense
when we expose darkness to light darkness in
our lives darkness in other people's lights
it is made visible what they need to make return
from our penta so what should our response be
today what should our response be verse 14 says
get upstairs and rise upon the dead and christ
will shine on you again paul speaking directly
to believers if you're struggling with walking
in darkness or talking about it or any of
things we've been dealing with maybe guys
just speaking to you today that you need to turn
from here's what paul's saying get up sleeper stop
stop walking as though you don't know what life
is experience it rise from the dead just like
just like christ said quit living like you used to
dead in your sins right christ is ready to shine
and i was challenged by this
statement as i was studying
we you know we're supposed to shine our whites
and the first thing i think of is the sun
see we're not suns in the world that's actually
jesus we're a moon what's the moon dude
it reflects the sun so we are only
light because we reflect jesus to others
so what's your take away if you're believing
today you're walking with jesus um it's time to
start living inspired i i hope today's text is
challenging you to lean in and say lord use me
like you've never used me before allow me to stop
walking darkness right no excuses no excuses it's
time to give your life fully to jesus and walk and
live because there's someone waiting for you right
so how do we respond repentance this
is the thing repentance doesn't happen
just as salvation it happens every day god is
there every day is saying i'm ready and welcome
so there's multiple days i'm asking god to
forgive me and turn for my sins and to walk
in freedom here's my challenge to you
may believe that you can change the world
i made that statement the other day
to some teachers and administrators
i said do you think you could change the world
and they kind of stared at me changed the world
i had a big task i said absolutely you could
change the world why how by living inspired
if you do there's gonna be one person maybe two
maybe three that you could change their eternity
where they spend their eternity either in heaven
wow yeah you can change the world with one person
maybe you don't know christ this is the last way
i want to kind of end today maybe you don't know
christ maybe you're questioning what it is to have
a relationship with him and he here's the thing
if you're questioning that totally get it
in there it's been a year i spent a year
questioning what it is in a relationship
with jesus and that's okay because you
are questioning and that's what i'm here for i
want you to know that i want to talk with you i
want to talk through what that means to follow
jesus i want to talk through how it is maybe
you're struggling with darkness how to overcome
that and guess what my guide's gonna be like
jesus it's not gonna be in ben's wisdom because i
don't got it it's got god's wisdom right i don't
got it but he does so your next step today
is important everybody has the next step
and i know we're going to do a next steps
lunch but if you're not going to that
everybody has the next step today whether
you're a follower of jesus or not what are
you trying to hide from god that god already
sees what darkness are you trying to hide from
during our time of invitation i
challenge you to give that to god
expose it to god ask for
forgiveness and move from it
if you don't know jesus maybe that's the darkness
maybe just the way you've been living maybe you
don't even realize maybe the way you've been
living is darkness but you know you need jesus
your response is to give your life to jesus and
here's what i've committed to during this time of
worship um so we have something called invitation
and there's too many times i don't explain
why we do things invitation is an opportunity to
invite you into your next step to follow jesus
again as a believer it could be repentance
to live inspire for an unbeliever somebody
that doesn't know jesus it may just be to
have the next conversation or it's maybe
to give your life to jesus and and i know it's
so difficult to do that because you're afraid
so during this time i want you to spend some
time praying asking god to forgive you or
to walk with you to reveal that but
i'm gonna stay in the back of them
because i want to invite anybody that needs to
be prayed for that has questions about salvation
maybe you want to give your life to jesus i
want to be back here to talk to you because
i know that sometimes it's difficult to come
forward right so it's okay to take a step back
and talk with me um or to be prayed for whatever
you need i'm gonna be there to be able to walk
with you through that um and then just spend some
time worshiping the lord as we conclude with this
type of invitation so let's pray lord jesus thank
you again for who you are thank you for your word
lord i pray today um lord i pray today
that um i know today there's someone in
this room lord that is struggling with giving
up some darkness in their life lord that that
they need to turn from and repent afterwards
so i just pray that they near this time of
meditation lord that they open their hearts and
give it to you and they walk out of this room
feeling free to live the life that you called them
to live or i i also in a room lord with people
that i have no clue where the relationship with
you lord i know there's somebody that's wrestling
or whether they should give their lives to you
lord whether they have or having questions lord
i pray that today they don't wait a year like i
waited lord that they go and they ask questions
they go and they ask for prayer where they go
and they say hey i need to give my life to jesus
lord we're praying for life change because you've
changed our lives we believe in the power of
salvation we believe in what you are doing in this
church we believe in what you're doing in our city
we believe in what you're doing in each one of
our individual lives lord and so we trust you
in the days as we go forward lord with
everything all the details lord may we walk
in truth and in goodness and in righteousness
or may we go live inspired we pray amen